Browser Test Actions and Advanced Settings pages (#6489)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/browser_tests/advanced_options.md

description: Configure advanced options for Browser Test Actions
further_reading:
- link: "synthetics/browser_tests/actions"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about Browser Test Actions"
---

## Custom selector

By default, [browser tests][1] use the Datadog locator system. It is recommended to only use custom selectors in edge cases as the Datadog locator system is what allows tests to be self-maintaining.

Custom selectors are created by performing a step of interest in the recorder (**click**, **hover**, **assert**, etc.) on any element of your page. This specifies the kind of step that needs to be performed.

To specify your custom locator:

* Choose an [action][2] and complete this action in the Browser Test scenario panel.
* Once the action is recorded in the left panel, click on the recorded action.
* Click **Advanced options**.
* The HTML element can then be selected either with an X-path or with a CSS class/ID, for example: `div`, `h1`, or `.hero-body`.
* Once you have defined an element, click **Test** to highlight the element in the recording on the right.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/advanced_options/css.gif" alt="Test Highlighted Element">}}

> By default the box **If user specified locator fails, fail test** is selected. This means that, by default, if the defined locator fails, the test will be considered a failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the box **If user specified locator fails, fail test** is selected. This means that, by default, if the defined locator fails, the test is considered a failure.
```

> You can decide to fallback on the regular Browser Test algorithm by deselecting the **If user specified locator fails, fail test** box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can decide to fall back on the regular browser test algorithm by deselecting the **If user specified locator fails, fail test** box.
```

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/advanced_options/fail_test.png" alt="Fail test option" style="width:70%">}}

## Timeout

> If a browser test is not able to locate an element, by default it will retry the action for 60 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a browser test is not able to locate an element, by default it retries the action for 60 seconds.
```
